---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

Perhaps this should be called Week 0, as it is only an initialization week.

Just kidding, one of the greatest distinctions of UTCS is the knowledge density of the coursework and professors. 

### What did I do this past week?

I learned quite a few new(ish) things, ranging from creating a simple static blog to being introduced to a host of software development tools. C++ may seem similar to Java but those similarities can be deceiving. Once upon a time I believed that
{% highlight java %}
import
{% endhighlight %}
{% highlight cpp %}
#include
{% endhighlight %}
did the same thing but in reality, they have rather different behaviors. I am also in the habit of testing my code by inserting checks that halt the program if they fail, but in retrospect that's a rather poor method of testing as such tests have to be removed before delivering the code. Instead, designing tests to fail gracefully and shipping them to the user would allow the user to give useful feedback. 
Seeing that I have hardly covered the information presented in class in only two days, it seems that there's no such thing as an initialization week, you should take off like a [funny car](https://youtu.be/9u-uosLb8QQ?t=1m7s) so you can stay ahead of the game.

### What's in my way?

I may sound like an alarmist, but I feel that way because one major obstacle: I have not used C++ before. I am not terribly concerned about my ability to pick up a new language, but I certainly wish that I had spent some of my summertime practicing with C++.

### What will I do next week?

That problem can be resolved though, by starting and finishing the first programming assignment (too optimistic?). In addition, I will spend some time right before class reviewing the previous class so I can pick up where the class left off easily. It's time to swallow that ego and study as if you know nothing.

### My experience in the class

Every now and then I caught my thoughts going off on a tangent about what Professor Downing said, at which point I'd return my thoughts to the lecture but even the few seconds that I had missed would be enough to throw me off till the next topic. All in all, it's very critical to stay on your feet and pay attention to the lecture and only the lecture. 


### ToTW

If you're working on a machine vision project, Facebook has open-sourced their image identification algorithms. [Click.](https://research.facebook.com/blog/learning-to-segment/)
Now, who wants to join me in making a robot that will pick up household objects and return them to their designated locations? 

<sup>P.S. I can't wait for my name to be cold-called.</sup>


