---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

Perhaps this should be called Week 0, as it is only an initialization week.

Just kidding, one of the greatest distinctions of UTCS is the knowledge density of the coursework and professors. 

### What are my expectations of the class?

I've taken OOP with Professor Downing in a previous class, so I'd be lying if I said I wasn't slightly apprehensive. It's not unmanageable, but the workload is continuous throughout the semester; there is a test or project every two weeks. The in class quizzes are often tricky as are the exams, but at the end of the day I'm not here for an easy time. I certainly learned quite a lot from OOP and expect to learn many new things in SWE as well. The things I learned in OOP have already come in handy at work so all things considered, I'm looking forward to SWE.

### What did I do this past week?

I goofed and repeatedly called a memory intensive function that gave static results (aka it only needed to be called once). Caused a wee crisis at work when it was pushed to production. Always keep memory in mind folks!

### What's in my way?

Courseload! I'm taking 16 hours on top of working part time and balancing a few family obligations. C'est la vie, je suppose.

### What will I do next week?

Start and finish the first project in order to leave time for other classes.

### My experience in the class

Class content was largely a repeat of OOP so I didn't come across any new things. There is one repeat worthy tidbit that I I've already used at work: proper testing methodology. I was in the habit of testing my code by inserting checks that halt the program if they fail, but in retrospect that's a rather poor method of testing as such tests have to be removed before delivering the code. Instead, designing tests to fail gracefully and shipping them to the user would allow the user to give useful feedback. 


### ToTW

If you have a Mac and don't have [Homebrew](https://brew.sh), get it! Many packages are available on Homebrew and it makes managing installations much easier.


<sup>P.S. A better headshot is in the works!</sup>
